1. Latitude and longitude in degrees, minutes, seconds, can be converted to decimal degrees using the following formula:
Decimal value = Degrees + (Minutes/60) + (Seconds/3600)
Eg: 25 degrees, 34 minutes, 12 seconds = 25 + (34/60) + (12/3600) = 25.57˚ (decimal=4~6)
25.57˚: 0.57*60=34.2, 34 is the minute; 0.2*60=12, 12 is the second. Second as integer. 
West and South: negative value, North and East: positive value
2. After opening a .mxd file: Right-click on Major Cities, Data-> Repair Data Source. Select MajorCities from the data.
3. Before using ArcMap, Customize-> Extensions (check all boxes)/Toolbars (check standard and tools)
4. Use Advanced Sorting… to sort multiple fields in Attributable table.
5. Shapefiles (=layers): >3 files, same name, different file extensions, stored in same folder. 
  1)	The .shp file has the features’ geometry and coordinates. 
  2)	The .sbx and .shx files contain indexes for speeding up searches and queries.
  3)	The .shp.xml file has layer’s metadata (information about the layer). 
  4)	The .dbf file has the feature attribute table in dBASE format and can be opened in Excel.
  5)	The .prj file is a simple text file that has the map projection parameters of the layer.
6.	What coordinate system a layer is in: Properties->Source tab
7.	Data Frame Properties: Right-click data frame name->Properties ->Coordinate System tab. The CS can be defined before adding data. There you can select a different coordinate system from the Predefined folder.
8.	Change units displayed on map: Data Frame Properties->General tab
9.	Add a layer: 
  1)	Click the yellow Add Data Button  in the menu bar.
  2)	In the Add Data dialog box, browse to the L1LectureData folder.  Use the Connect to Folder Button to find it if necessary.
  3)	Add Lakes.shp to the first data frame.
10.	Unknown Spatial Reference: no .prj file when adding layer. Click OK. 
11.	Change your data from a Geographic CS in decimal degrees to a Projected CS in units of distance. This is done using a projection. Only projecting a GCS will changes units from dd to distance (meters, feet). When a layer has a CS but you want to create a new shapefile with a different CS (i.e., from geographic to projected), you use the Project tool
  1)	Geoprocessing->ArcToolbox-> Data Management->Projections and Transformations->Project;
  2)	Activate the second data frame. (Although the date frame is projected, the data layers are not.)
  3)	Open the Project tool to project MajorCities layer from Geographic to Projected CS.
  4)	Name output shapefile MajorCities_Proj.shp and save it to your flash drive.
  5)	For Output Coordinate System, click Select
  6)	Open Projected CS, Continental, North America, and USA Contiguous Albers Equal Area Conic
  7)	Add MajorCities_Proj, open Layer Properties, and click Source tab to see its coordinate system. (Note that the units are in meters (m) and that the Coordinate System is Projected)
12.	Only use the define projection tool if the CS is unknown: (.prj file associated with shapefile created)
  1)	Geoprocessing->ArcToolbox-> Data Management->Projections and Transformations->Define Projection;
  2)	Activate the first data frame;
  3)	Open the Define Projection tool and click the hand icon.
  4)	You can select a coordinate system from the Geographic or Projected CS folders. If the layer has the same CS as an existing layer, expand the Layers folder and select the CS.
13.	On-the-fly Projection: When two or more layers have different coordinates systems, ArcMap transforms the layers’ coordinates to match the first layer added. If the layer is in a PCS, ArcMap unprojects the x,y coordinates to the latitude-longitude coordinates, and then reprojects to the projection of the first layer. The on-the-fly transformations are NOT saved in ArcMap. The layer continues to have the same CS
14.	Choices for projections at different scales are: Robinson projection for the world, Albers equal-area conic projection for the U.S., State Plane and Universal Tranverse Mercator (UTM) for state-level.
15.	Exporting & Inserting maps:
  1)	In the File menu, scroll down to Export Map.
  2)	Find the folder you want to save the image to.
  3)	Save as a JPEG file.
  4)	In Word document, go to Insert Menu.
  5)	Scroll down to Picture, follow arrow, and select From File.  
  6)	Locate where you saved your image.
