1.	Selection: Select using the pointer; Select by Location, and Select by Attributes; edit your selection by using the Interactive Selection Method options from the Selection drop down menu.
2.	Select by Location: Spatial selection methods: find features within a certain distance of another or features that intersect with some added distance by checking the Apply search distance. Make sure your units are correct. 
3.	How many C (in layer A) in layer B? 
   •	Select by location: Target layer: A; Source layer: B; Spatial Selection Method : the Target layer features are completely within the Source layer feature
   •	Select by Attributes: Layer: A; Method: select from current selection; Field: Status=C
   •	After selection, export data
4.	Selection by select tool: make only electable layer->Select-> Right-click to create a new layer from Selected->Rename layer->Clear selection. 
5.	Dissolve: Data Management Toolbox-> Generalization-> Dissolve; 1) Polygons with the same Field value will be dissolved into a single feature. There must be some repeated items in columns. 2) Statistics field: the statistics of the field will be calculated into a single feature. 3) If uncheck Multipart, same population is assigned to each record. Why: Multiple records exist because of islands or other geographies that were created as separate features. 4) create a new shapefile of just a polygon outline. Summarize the repeat items. 
6.	Clipping: Analysis Tools Toolbox-> Extract-> Clip. 1) Trims features of one layer using the outline of a polygon feature; similar to select by location. 2) Clip layer A (input feature) by B (Clip Feature), get a shapefile of A only in B. 
7.	Spatial Join: Analysis Tool box-> Overlay-> Spatial Join. 1) Creates a table join where attributes (columns) from one layer are appended to attributes of a target layer based on their spatial relationship; 2) polygon to points; 3) Target: Point layer; Join feature: Polygon. 
8.	Spatial Join by right clicking: start with the layer that you want to join data to->right click->Join and relates->Join->is closest to it. 1) A spatial join so that even if the addresses don’t fall in the town polygon, they’ll still have data from the closest town joined to it. 2) The option “closest to” also includes a new column for distance between the two layers. This is only true for the right-click join. 3) get a count of the features of one shapefile (points) that fall inside the features of another (polygon) (it falls inside) points to polygon. 
9.	Summarize: creates a new table containing one record for each unique value of the selected field.
10.	Union: Computes the geometric union of the Input Features. Combine the attributes. Polygon to polygon. Analysis Tool box-> Overlay-> Union. Similar to join attributes. Gaps allowed.
11.	Intersect: Computes the geometric intersection of the Input Features. Attributes from both layers are included in the new attribute table. Analysis Tool box-> Overlay-> Intersect. Choose layer A (1, small) and B (2, big) (% of A falls into B); Output Type=INPUT=lowest dimension geometry. perMMR=100*[interarea]/[AREA_1]  
12.	Buffer: Creates buffer polygons around input features to a specified distance. Analysis Tool box->Proximity-> Buffer.  Can dissolve buffers so there is only one.
13.	Append: Adds features (rows) of one layer to the features in another layer of the same shape. Add A to B (Export first). NON-test. Data Management Tool box-> General->Append.
14.	Displaying X,Y Coordinates: 1) Right click on the table and  scroll to Display XY Data. 2) geocode; 3) Add X, Y 
